Group Project – Part I

The FAA has released a Request for Proposal (RFP) with a need to modernize the system which manages the training of their air traffic controllers.  The purpose of the new training system is to manage the training content for controllers (aka a learning content management system or LCMS) but the LCMS does not just manage written lessons plans and give the trainee a written quiz; instead it provides the trainee with an interactive training experience to test how the controller responds to real-life situations.  The FAA has made it mandatory that a presentation of the final or “to-be” solution along with a working prototype be ready for demonstration in May 2015 with the understanding that a full, working solution cannot be ready in the given timeframe. 

The system will need to have the following capabilities:

1.	Persist training goals and courses
2.	Provide an intuitive GUI to allow training administrators to enter new lesson goals, course lesson plans, view user quiz/evaluation results, etc.
3.	Provide an interactive solution (aka simulator) for the user to take the evaluation.  
4.	Generate a random evaluation or quiz for each lesson plan
5.	Store trainee information 
6.	Allow a controller trainee to select a goal and have the LCMS create a customized, interactive lesson plan.
a.	The lesson planner should be "smart" enough to generate a lesson based on previous evaluations.  
b.	Trainees should be able to view reports of all their training results
7.	Allow management view training reports for their employees.
8.	Allow government auditors to view reports related to time spent training the controller
a.	Done for legal reasons as controllers are required to spend a certain number of hours per year “advancing their knowledge” or training.



Part I:  The emphasis of the first part of the project is planning.  I will be your program manager and Subject Matter Expert (SME) who is knowledgeable in the needs of the government for this particular project – keep in mind that while I am skilled in the needs of the government I am also not overly skilled in the use of a computer nor do I have any programming experience.    
Your deliverables for the first part include the following:
-	Use Cases
-	Requirements
-	Risks & mitigation
-	LOE
-	Project Schedule (include task, assignee, days to complete)
-	Software Process selection (include configuration management)
-	Design (prototype and final “to-be”solution)


The deliverables will be due on a rolling basis that match up with the week’s lecture.  Each week we will dedicate the second portion of class to group work where I can spend time with each team to answer questions and provide feedback.  We will have a mid-semester status presentation right before spring break (details to be announced).    
